JUDY WOODRUFF: Good evening. I'm
Judy Woodruff.
On the "NewsHour" tonight: The
U.S. economy
shows signs of sustained
strength, adding
292,000 jobs in December,
despite global turmoil.
Then, almost six months after
escaping a high-security
prison, the Mexican drug lord
known as El
Chapo is arrested.
Plus, Miles O'Brien unwraps the
latest health-related
technology from the Consumer
Electronics Show.
PETER NEILSON, CEO, femtoScale:
Can we use
all this data we can get from
all sorts of
different things, not only to
keep people
healthy once they're in the
hospital, but
prevent them from getting sick
in the first
place?
JUDY WOODRUFF: And it's Friday.
David Brooks
and David Corn are here, to
analyze the week's
news.
All that and more on tonight's
"PBS NewsHour."
(BREAK)
JUDY WOODRUFF: The December jobs
numbers are
in, and they show employers were
in a hiring
mood. According to the
Department of Labor,
monthly surveys found that U.S.
businesses
added a net of more than 290,000
positions.
The unemployment rate was
unchanged, at 5
percent, as more people went
looking for work
and found it. We will hear from
the secretary
of labor, Thomas Perez, after
the news summary.
President Obama has vetoed a
Republican bill
that would have repealed the
Affordable Care
Act. He said today it would
reverse significant
progress in improving health
care. This was
the first such repeal measure to
reach the
Oval Office.
But, in a video statement, House
Speaker Paul
Ryan said it may not be the
last.
REP. PAUL RYAN (R-WI), Speaker
of the House:
We have shown now that there is
a clear path
to repealing Obamacare without
60 votes in
the Senate. So, next year, if
we're sending
this bill to a Republican
president, it will
get signed into law.
JUDY WOODRUFF: The bill had
enough votes in
the House to override a
presidential veto,
but not in the Senate.
The president also made moves
today on fighting
violent extremism. They include
a task force
to counter the use of social
media to radicalize
and recruit. Senior
administration officials
traveled to Silicon Valley today
to get the
tech industry's help.
An Islamic State affiliate in
Libya has claimed
responsibility for a deadly
truck bombing.
The explosion rocked a police
base outside
Tripoli on Thursday, as hundreds
of recruits
were training. At least 47
people were killed
and scores more were wounded.
Meanwhile, investigators in
Belgium say they
have discovered an apartment
where Islamic
State militants made bombs for
the Paris attacks
last November. A raid in
Brussels turned up
suicide belts and bomb-making
gear. The attacks
killed 130 people.
In Syria, relief agencies waited
today for
the green light to enter a town
that is literally
starving to death. The Syrian
government has
now agreed to let relief into
Madaya, in the
northwest, near the border with
Lebanon.
Geraint Vincent of Independent
Television
News filed this report.
And be advised: Some of the
images may be
disturbing.
GERAINT VINCENT: In the
desperate neighborhoods
of Madaya, the people are to be
found huddled
around their stoves. The old man
here takes
delivery of a small bag of olive
leaves.
"Can you not bring us some
rice?," he asks.
But the leaves are the nearest
thing to food
he will see today. There is at
least some
water to boil them in.
We can't independently verify
these pictures,
but at the hospital, the doctors
say the emergency
they are trying to cope with is
getting worse
and worse. This man hasn't eaten
for 25 days,
we're told, and he's one of
hundreds being
kept alive with medication and
spoonfuls of
food.
Laying siege to towns full of
civilians is
a tactic employed on both sides
of Syria's
war. It is forces loyal to
President Assad
which have cut off Madaya. His
government
says it will allow humanitarian
access. Aid
agencies hope to get food in
there by Sunday.
ABEER ETEFA, United Nations
World Food Program:
We know that when people are
besieged and
are cut off from supplies, that
the situation
will be bad. We know that there
will be high
rates of malnutrition, severe
malnutrition,
stunting among children, health
issues, diseases.
We know that usually the
children, the women,
the elderly will pay a heavy
price.
GERAINT VINCENT: Aid might get
through soon,
but the uncertainties of war
mean it might
not. The time is running out for
the people
of Madaya, and so is what passes
for food
here.
JUDY WOODRUFF: The Syrian
government wants
to wrest back control of Madaya
to secure
supply lines to its Hezbollah
militia allies
in Lebanon.
South Korea fired up its
loudspeakers today
near the demilitarized zone, and
blasted propaganda
into North Korea. The
high-decibel criticism
attacked the North Korean regime
and its leader,
Kim Jong-un. One message claimed
that Kim
and his wife wear clothing that
costs thousands
of dollars. Seoul resumed the
broadcasts after
the North carried out a nuclear
test.
And South Koreans near the DMZ
seemed supportive.
MAN (through translator): No
wonder the South
Korean government has started
the loudspeaker
broadcasts. We cannot tolerate
those who conduct
a nuclear test, which was a
violation, don't
you think? We should counteract
it.
JUDY WOODRUFF: In the past,
North Korea has
branded the broadcasts an act of
war. It responded
late today with propaganda
broadcasts of its
own.
Adolf Hitler's political
manifesto, "Mein
Kampf," went on sale in Germany
today for
the first time since World War
II, and demand
quickly outstripped supply. The
initial print
run was for 4,000 copies, but
15,000 orders
flooded the publisher. The
two-volume work
includes critical annotations
that debunk
the Nazi leader's claims.
ANDREAS WIRSCHING, Director,
Institute for
Contemporary History (through
translator):
This edition exposes the false
information
spread by Hitler, his downright
lies and his
many half-truths, which aimed at
a pure propaganda
effect.
JUDY WOODRUFF: For decades, the
German state
of Bavaria used its copyright on
"Mein Kampf"
to block any new editions, but
the copyright
expired at the end of 2015.
Back in this country, police in
Philadelphia
say a man who ambushed and
wounded an officer
last night pledged loyalty to
the Islamic
State group. The suspect, Edward
Archer, is
in custody. His mother says he'd
been hearing
voices recently, and that his
family had urged
him to get help. Surveillance
video shows
the gunman firing more than a
dozen shots
at officer Jesse Hartnett, who
was sitting
in his cruiser. Hartnett shot
back and wounded
the attacker.
Reports of sexual assaults have
spiked at
U.S. military academies. The
Associated Press
reports they rose more than 50
percent during
just the past school year. It's
not clear
whether that's mostly because
assaults are
actually on the rise or whether
victims are
more willing to come forward.
Wall Street continues its slump
again today,
amid ongoing worries about
China's economy
and falling oil prices. The Dow
Jones industrial
average lost 167 points to close
below 16350.
The Nasdaq fell nearly 46, and
the S&P 500
slipped 21. For the week, the
Dow and the
S&P lost 6 percent, the worst
since 2011.
The Nasdaq fell 7 percent.
And, finally, a new world record
for mass
tooth brushing. More than 17,500
children
gathered in Bangalore, India,
yesterday to
highlight good oral hygiene.
That should easily
surpass the old mark for most
people brushing
their teeth in one place.
It makes you feel clean just
looking at them.
Still to come on the "NewsHour":
the U.S.
labor secretary on a solid year
in job growth;
Mexico's infamous drug lord
captured again;
outrage over mass sexual
assaults in Germany;
and much more.
The final jobs U.S. report for
2015 helped
finish the year off with solid
growth. Overall,
the economy added 2.6 million
jobs last year.
Combined with 2014, that led to
a two-year
gain in jobs that was the best
since the late
'90s.
And, yet, wage growth remained
slow or modest
at best for the year, around 2.5
percent.
Tom Perez is the secretary of
labor, and he
joins me now.
And welcome back to the program.
THOMAS PEREZ, U.S. Secretary of
Labor: Pleasure
to be with you and all your
viewers.
JUDY WOODRUFF: So, this is a
strong year of
growth. I saw one report that
said it's -- called
it a red-hot hiring spree.
What's behind this? What was
driving this?
THOMAS PEREZ: Well, your
introduction is really
spot on.
When you look at the last two
years, not simply
the last month -- and, by the
way, the best
month of -- the best quarter of
2015 was the
last quarter of 2015 -- when you
look at the
last two years, this is the best
two-year
stretch we have had since the
late '90s.
You look at auto sales. Last
year was the
hottest year for auto sales in
history. You
look at the -- you look at the
fact that this
six-year stretch of auto sales
is the best
stretch we have had since the
end of World
War II. And you look at not only
the quantity
of jobs, Judy, but the quality
of jobs, because
what we're seeing over the last
two years
is not only good numbers, but
very good quality.
And you look at, for instance,
professional
and business services. That's
been the biggest
growth area over the last two
years. These
are good jobs. Construction had
a good year
last year. And with the
infrastructure bill
that passed at the end of last
year, I expect
construction will continue to do
well.
Health care, notwithstanding the
truth deniers
who say the ACA is a job killer,
the health
care has been a recession...
JUDY WOODRUFF: The health care
law.
THOMAS PEREZ: That's been a
recession-proof
industry.
So, quantity and quality has
been moving forward,
and that's a good thing.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Well, much of the
underlying
data is strong, Mr. Secretary,
but there still
are some signs of concern.
THOMAS PEREZ: Sure.
JUDY WOODRUFF: And I want to ask
you if it's
concern. It looks as if jobs
that pay at the
higher end, people earning more,
are doing
better than those in the middle-
and lower-income
levels. Wage -- as we just
mentioned, wage
growth is stagnant.
How do you explain that
persistent stubbornness
in terms of getting wages
higher?
THOMAS PEREZ: Well, what
invariably happens
in a recovery is the jobs that
come back first
are the lower-paying jobs, and
that's what
happened in this recovery.
Now what you're seeing in recent
years, which
is a good thing, is that more
jobs that pay
better are coming back. And
that's what I
was mentioning about the last
two years. The
challenge of wage stagnation is
an undeniable
challenge and it predates the
great recession.
Last year's real wage growth of
2.1 percent
was the best we have had since
the recovery
began. And so that's solid, but
that's not
enough. And, again, this issue
dates back
to really the late '70s. And for
decades after
World War II, productivity and
real wage growth
went hand in hand. Americans
helped bake the
pie of prosperity and they
shared in those
benefits.
And then it became delinked
starting in the
late '70s, with the exception of
the end of
the Clinton administration. And
so we still
have real work to do on real
wage growth.
That's the unfinished business.
JUDY WOODRUFF: But it sounds
like something,
though, that you expect to
continue, the slow
wage...
THOMAS PEREZ: Well, last year,
again, was
the best year we have seen in
the recovery.
And in the end of the Clinton
administration,
the unemployment rate was 4
percent. And so
one of the things we can do to
put upward
pressure on wages is to continue
to have tight
labor markets. Another thing we
can do is
to raise the minimum wage.
Another thing we
can do is the regulations the
president has
directed us to do to make sure
that people
who work overtime get paid
overtime.
And then investing in skills is
a tried-and-true
method of helping people get
access to those
middle-class jobs that are out
there in I.T.
and other sectors.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Broaden this out
for us. We
know that, globally, China is
slowing down.
We have done a lot of reporting
on that, what's
happening to China's market.
That's having
global repercussions.
THOMAS PEREZ: Sure.
JUDY WOODRUFF: And then you have
oil, the
price of oil, at record lows.
How much do you worry about the
effect of
things like that on the U.S.
economy and U.S.
jobs?
THOMAS PEREZ: Well, the price of
oil as it
is now for consumers is an
unmitigated boon.
You go to a gas pump, and you're
paying less
than $2 a gallon. The average
family last
year had about $500 to $800 of
additional
money in their pockets. That's
good for consumers.
And what do they do with that
money? They
spend it. And so you see very
good numbers
on consumer spending in the
United States.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Unless you're
working in the
oil industry.
THOMAS PEREZ: And, of course,
the challenge
for those working in the sector
-- and we
have seen that impact in the
mining sector,
which is where the oil jobs are
found.
And, certainly, the headwinds
from China,
and others in the strong dollar,
it's more
difficult to manufacture, and so
the manufacturing
numbers in 2015 weren't as good.
But, again, we had these
headwinds in 2015
as well. I did a lot of numbers
days interviews
when people said the market was
volatile over
the last two weeks. Isn't --
isn't -- the
job numbers, aren't they going
to go down?
And you look, and you see we
have had two
years in a row of north of
200,000 jobs a
month on average. That's solid.
JUDY WOODRUFF: One other thing I
want to ask
you about, Mr. Secretary, is the
labor force
participation rate. It continues
at what I
understand to be a four-decade
low. What is
it, 62 percent of Americans who
want to be
or would like to be in the labor
force actually
have a job.
So how do you -- what's the
prospect for the
future for people who want to
work, either
don't have the job they want or
don't have
any job?
THOMAS PEREZ: Well, the labor
force participation
rate over the last year has been
basically
the same. It's about 62.6
percent.
And it's been a very narrow
band. And the
reason it has gone down from,
say, 10 years
ago, 15 years ago, even five
years ago, the
primary reason it's gone down is
because of
the aging of the population.
Economists say
that roughly 50 percent of the
reduction in
labor force participation is
attributable
to demographics.
The main thing that we could do
to increase
labor force participation at a
policy level
is to enact federal paid leave.
The countries
that have enacted paid leave
laws -- and Canada
is a great example. In 2000, the
female labor
force participation in the U.S.
and Canada
was identical.
Because of their investment in
paid leave,
they are now 8 percent ahead of
the United
States. If we had kept pace, we
would have
5.5 million more women in the
workplace, making
the Silicon Valley and Wall
Street look more
like America, making our
Medicare trust fund
and Social Security trust fund
more secure.
JUDY WOODRUFF: And a big debate
about that
right now out on the campaign
trail.
THOMAS PEREZ: Amen.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Labor Secretary
Tom Perez,
thank you very much.
THOMAS PEREZ: Always a pleasure.
JUDY WOODRUFF: The words from
Mexico's president,
Enrique Pena Nieto, this
afternoon said it
all: "Mission accomplished. We
have him."
The him is perhaps the world's
most-notorious
drug lord, Joaquin Guzman, known
as El Chapo,
the ringleader of the Sinaloa
cartel. He was
arrested after a fierce gun
battle today,
nearly six months after his
elaborate escape
from a high-security prison.
We go to Hari Sreenivasan for
more.
HARI SREENIVASAN: I'm joined now
by Alfredo
Corchado, director of the
Borderlands program
at the Cronkite School of
Journalism at Arizona
State University. He has also
reported for
many years from Mexico for The
Dallas Morning
News, and is author of "Midnight
in Mexico,"
a book about his experience
covering the brutal
drug war.
So, let's start with the basics.
What happened?
Where was he? How did he get
captured?
ALFREDO CORCHADO, Arizona State
University:
Well, he was captured this
morning right before
dawn, intense firefight between
the marines
and drug traffickers, people
close to or guarding
Chapo Guzman.
What we know is that, since last
July, the
marines, with the help of U.S.
intelligence,
had been tracking him in several
Mexican states,
including Sinaloa, where he was
captured this
morning, the state of Durango,
and even Tabasco.
This -- there were two
confrontations, from
what we know, the first one at a
private home
and then he was later captured
at a motel.
Five of his trusted bodyguards
were killed,
and at least one marine was
wounded.
HARI SREENIVASAN: This is the
second time
the president of Mexico has gone
on national
television and said they have
got this guy.
I mean, this is an important
win.
ALFREDO CORCHADO: This is the
second time
for President Pena Nieto, and
the third time
that a Mexican president has
said that.
He said, you know, "Mission
accomplished,"
but I think a lot of people will
feel that
the mission has not been
accomplished until
Chapo actually faces justice.
And the best
chance of doing that will be on
the U.S. side.
So, there's a lot of tangling
already going
on, a lot of debate as to
whether he will
be extradited this time.
HARI SREENIVASAN: And let's talk
a little
bit about that. The United
States has asked
for extradition. Do you think
that that is
a greater possibility now?
ALFREDO CORCHADO: I think the
timing is -- it's
much better than last time.
I think, the first time he was
captured, there
was a lot of angst, a lot of
reticence within
the Mexican government. There
was the suspicion
that you don't want to let the
Americans get
too close, come in too close.
But after this huge
embarrassment that went
worldwide, I think there is a
sense that this
may be good for Mexican
government. This obviously
will be good for the U.S.
government.
But keep in mind that Chapo
Guzman has a vast
army of lawyers. And I'm sure
that the -- even
before he's captured, there was
already a
fight to -- for temporary
injunctions that
prohibit or that would stop an
extradition.
It may happen, but I think it's
a long, long
ways before this happens.
HARI SREENIVASAN: What
involvement was there,
if any, by the U.S. in assisting
with the
capture?
ALFREDO CORCHADO: Well, my
sources tell me
that the U.S. has been helping
the Mexican
marines since the capture with
intelligence,
but, unlike the first time,
there were no
U.S. agents on the ground
assisting the Mexican
marines and the federal police.
So, this is a -- was primarily a
Mexican operation.
HARI SREENIVASAN: You know,
Chapo Guzman already
had almost folklore status, but
that prison
break and how elaborate it was
just six months
ago really sealed it.
ALFREDO CORCHADO: Right.
And, today, the premiere of the
movie "Chapo"
is in Mexico City. They're
expecting at least
four other movies this year.
There's talk
about a series, or there have
been books.
It will be interesting to see
how people in
regions in Mexico, especially
Sinaloa, how
they will react.
Will they come out and protest
again because
of this arrest? Will they let it
go? I'm sure
there will be -- I'm sure there
are already
songs being written at this
moment, as we
speak, about Chapo's latest
capture.
HARI SREENIVASAN: Is there some
sense that
this will be a more significant
blow to the
drug cartels? In some ways, his
capture or
his escape seems to be almost
representative
of the Mexican government's
ability to tackle
the drug war.
ALFREDO CORCHADO: And the
ability to try to
create a country with rule of
law.
I think what is interesting
about today's
capture is that Chapo's main
lieutenant known
as El Cholo Ivan was also
captured. So, that's
a huge blow to the Sinaloa
cartel.
But, as we have seen, the
Sinaloa cartel,
for a long time, has been really
under the
control of Zambada, Mayo
Zambada. So, that
-- there might be some
territorial fights
in places like Ciudad Juarez,
and Chihuahua,
other places, but it's business
as usual,
as long as you have U.S. demand,
I think the
drugs will continue to come up
north.
HARI SREENIVASAN: All right,
Alfredo Corchado,
director of the Borderlands
program at the
Cronkite School of Journalism at
Arizona State,
thanks so much for joining us.
ALFREDO CORCHADO: Thank you.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Stay with us.
Coming up on the "NewsHour": the
newest gadgets
to boost your health; and David
Brooks and
David Corn on this week's news.
But, first, in the German city
of Cologne,
more than 100 women have filed
complaints
about being sexually molested by
men described
as being of -- quote -- "North
African or
Arab origin."
The attacks have polarized
public opinion
in Germany over its open door
policy, which
has seen it take in more than a
million asylum
seekers amid the refugee crisis.
From Cologne, special
correspondent Malcolm
Brabant reports.
MALCOLM BRABANT: Dominated by
its magnificent
cathedral, Cologne has a
reputation for great
tolerance. But the city's
open-mindedness
has been stretched to the limit
by what happened
beneath the spires and near the
railway station
as the new year fireworks were
let off in
an aggressive manner by some of
those in the
crowd.
It took several days for the
full extent of
the criminal activity to be
revealed. This
young woman, who asked to remain
anonymous,
was one of more than 100 who
were assaulted.
WOMAN (through translator): All
of a sudden,
these men around us began
groping us. They
touched our behinds and grabbed
between our
legs. They touched us
everywhere. So, my girlfriend
wanted to get out of the crowd.
When I turned
around, one guy grabbed my bag
and ripped
it off my body. I thought to
myself that,
if we stay here in this crowd,
they could
kill us, they could rape us, and
nobody would
notice.
I thought we simply had to
accept it. There
was no one around us who helped
or was in
a position to help. All I wanted
was to get
out. I was scared that I
wouldn't leave this
crowd alive. I was scared that
if someone
showed up with a knife, I could
be raped in
the middle of the street.
I have nightmares at night and I
can't sleep
anymore. I am too scared to go
outside on
my own. And, of course, I'm now
scared to
go to big cities.
MALCOLM BRABANT: Writer Alice
Schwarzer is
regarded as one of Germany's
leading women's
rights activists. She believes
what happened
in Cologne marks a line in the
sand in the
debate over immigration.
ALICE SCHWARZER, Women's Rights
Activist (through
translator): In the last 40
years, we have
very successfully fought for our
rights as
women, for our freedom, for our
access to
the world, and that we are free
to move around
in it. And it's going to stay
that way, of
course.
If someone has to change, then
it's the men
who come from cultures where
women are traditionally
robbed of their rights, where
they are repressed
and the victims of violence.
These men have
been brutalized by the violence
and trauma
of war. They have problems, and
I don't want
us to have problems because of
that. They
have to change and recognize the
values and
laws of our states
unconditionally.
MALCOLM BRABANT: Parts of this
city have been
described as being as no-go
zones for women,
but some have been out on the
streets demanding
that they should be free to move
where they
wish without fear of being
attacked. They
demanded action from Chancellor
Angela Merkel,
who gave her first reaction to
the events
in Cologne and elsewhere.
ANGELA MERKEL, German Chancellor
(through
translator): What happened at
New Year is
completely unacceptable. Those
are despicable
criminal acts which a state will
not accept,
including Germany. That's why an
intensive
investigation by the relevant
institutions
is under way. This investigation
must be supported.
The feeling women had in this
case of being
completely defenseless and at
mercy is, for
me, personally intolerable, and
so it is important
that everything that happened
must come out
into the open. It's right and
it's good that
there are a lot of police
reports being filed.
MALCOLM BRABANT: These two young
Germans,
both with immigrant backgrounds,
are deeply
troubled by what happened. The
man with the
glasses, Mimoun Berrissoun,
whose parents
are from Morocco, heads a group
dedicated
to deradicalizing young Muslims
and promoting
integration.
MIMOUN BERRISSOUN, Turn 180
Degrees (through
translator): When groups of
people from other
countries come here, the first
thing they
have to do is learn the rules.
They have to
develop a sense of what they can
and can't
do.
It's possible they had the idea
in their heads
that it would be easier to get
with European
women than it actually is, and
that they had
brought this idea with them from
home, and
tried to make it reality here.
But I also
believe this is a very small
group of people
who behaved this way in that
moment.
MALCOLM BRABANT: Talha Evran,
who is of Turkish
ancestry, is worried about the
impact these
attacks will have on immigrants
who abide
by German laws.
TALHA EVRAN, Germany: The right
wing is going
to use that as a big argument.
They have been
waiting for that. And that is so
sad, because
there is big issue, this
conversation, this
discussion.
And we Germans are trying to
talk good about
them. Like, we're trying to
welcome refugees.
And if there are people
harassing people on
New Year's Eve being asylum
seekers or refugees,
you know, that's just
endangering all of that
welcoming, welcome culture.
That's what we
call it.
MALCOLM BRABANT: Tonight,
outside the scene
of the New Year's Eve assaults,
the right-wing
group known as Alternative for
Germany was
out canvassing for support.
Their polling
numbers are on the rise.
Supporter Helmut Vanichek:
HELMUT VANICHEK, Germany
(through translator):
Those guilty of crimes, but also
those whose
asylum applications are
rejected, must leave
the country, in accordance with
German law.
MALCOLM BRABANT: When the scale
of the attacks
first emerged, senior government
officials
were at pains to separate the
issue of the
refugee crisis from the criminal
activity.
But now the German authorities
say they are
18 asylum seekers among the 31
people suspected
of involvement in the troubles
on New Year's
Eve. Some of those people could
be deported
if convicted.
Meanwhile, the perceived lack of
control has
led to Cologne's police chief
being relieved
of his duties. The officers
union believes
that he's been made a scapegoat,
claiming
that government policies have
undermined their
ability to police properly.
For the "PBS NewsHour," I'm
Malcolm Brabant
in Cologne.
JUDY WOODRUFF: More than 100,000
people turned
out for the Consumer Electronics
Show in Las
JUDY WOODRUFF: More than 100,000
people turned
out for the Consumer Electronics
Show in Las
Vegas this week, the annual
showcase for the
latest in technology, devices
and high-end
toys.
One of the big themes was the
rising interest
in health tech.
Our science correspondent, Miles
O'Brien,
was there to explore the
potential benefits
and caveats around all of this.
His report is part of our
Breakthroughs series
on invention and innovation.
MILES O'BRIEN: Wearing your
heart on your
sleeve is taking on a whole new
meaning.
At the 2016 pilgrimage to Las
Vegas for gadget
geeks, CES, wearable health
tracking devices
broke into full stride, winning
much more
than a bit of flashy floor space
and heated
hype. Of course, for the growing
legions of
you keeping score at home on
your devices,
this is likely old data.
WOODY SCAL, Chief Business
Officer, Fitbit:
What is happening is, people are
taking more
responsibility for their health
and fitness.
They're realizing that health
and fitness
isn't just popping a pill. It's
actually what
they do that can really add up
to a healthy
life.
MILES O'BRIEN: Woody Scal is the
chief business
officer at market leader Fitbit,
a $4 billion
company based in San Francisco
that began
selling glorified pedometers in
2007.
WOODY SCAL: Seven years ago,
when you talked
about fitness electronics,
people thought
about products for triathletes.
They didn't
realize that these products
could really address
the needs of everyday people.
MILES O'BRIEN: An estimated 500
million people
worldwide apparently now feel
the need to
copiously log their steps,
leaps, strokes
and spins, while recording their
breathing,
heart rate, blood pressure,
sleep patterns
and food intake, just to name a
few, and then,
of course, brag about it online.
LINDSEY TURRENTINE, Editor in
Chief, CNET:
I think humans have always been
completely
narcissistic. That has not
changed. The technology
has given us a constant virtual
mirror.
MILES O'BRIEN: Lindsey
Turrentine is a sporadic
fitness logger and the editor in
chief of
CNET.com, where tracking the
technology of
fitness tracking has become a
big, important
beat.
LINDSEY TURRENTINE: We're always
checking
on ourselves constantly. We're
checking on
whether people have responded to
us, and then
we're also checking to see
whether our bodies
have responded to what we're
doing. It's just
another way to look at
ourselves.
MILES O'BRIEN: But there is more
than the
psychology of self-obsession
driving this
sector to grow more than 200
percent a year.
There's a perfect storm of
technological advances
as well. Sensors are rapidly
shrinking in
size and cost. Communications
between devices
has improved. And so has battery
life.
And, of course, none of it could
happen without
the ubiquity of smartphones, our
mobile switchboard
for all things technological.
It's a ripe
convergence for the big players
upstairs and
the upstarts in the basement as
well.
That's where we found Peter
Neilson, CEO of
a Denver start-up called
femtoScale.
It seems like there's no limit
to the amount
of data people want to get.
Right? Would you
agree with that? What's going
on?
PETER NEILSON, CEO, femtoScale:
And wearables...
MILES O'BRIEN: Yes.
PETER NEILSON: ... are blowing
up. That's
half of CES this year looks like
its wearable,
trying to compute everything.
MILES O'BRIEN: Neilson's company
is developing
a portable and eventually
wearable sensor
that can provide real-time
readings of air
quality by weighing airborne
particles much
too small to see. The scale is
just barely
visible.
I needed a jeweler's magnifying
glass to see
it.
PETER NEILSON: What we're really
trying to
do is look at, not just health
care, but wellness.
Can we use all this data we can
get from all
sorts of different things, not
only to keep
people healthy once they're in
the hospital,
but prevent them from getting
sick in the
first place?
MILES O'BRIEN: San Jose-based
Stratio has
shrunk a spectrometer down to
palm size. The
device shines a bright light on
food and medicine
to determine if they are what
they purport
to be.
In this demonstration, CEO Jae
Hyung Lee compared
counterfeit, generic and genuine
Viagra to
the fingerprint-like
spectroscopic pattern
of the real McCoy. It was
instantly obvious
which were the impostors.
JAE HYUNG LEE, CEO, Stratio: So
far, people
were just interested themselves,
but now they
want to know more about what
they're eating.
They want to know what they're
buying. They
want to know what's going on
around them.
MILES O'BRIEN: Clearly, exercise
and nutrition
tracking alone are not enough to
satisfy entrepreneurs
or consumers in the health
tracking space.
Kaustubh Kale is CEO of a Boca
Raton start-up
called AventuSoft. They are
developing a wearable
heart monitor and
electrocardiogram.
KAUSTUBH KALE, CEO, AventuSoft:
There's not
a pushback anymore. People are
already aware
of Fitbit or any of the other
wearables, so
they're already accepting these
new technologies.
And now, as the technology
improves, you can
now push it into the medical
grid domain.
MILES O'BRIEN: It's an
interesting development.
When you think about it, it
really is no less
than the democratization of
medicine, isn't
it?
KAUSTUBH KALE: Absolutely, yes.
You're putting
the power in the consumer's
hands, and so
they can get the data whenever
they need,
where they need it and with the
accuracy that
the doctor needs.
MILES O'BRIEN: This is where the
government
steps in. In early 2015, the
Food and Drug
Administration released a
document offering
guidance to industry and its own
staff on
regulating mobile medical
applications, declaring
it will only regulate apps that
are medical
devices and whose functionality
could pose
a risk to a patient's safety if
the mobile
app were to not function as
intended.
BAKUL PATEL, Food and Drug
Administration:
So, the risk to patients ranges
from misdiagnosis,
delay in diagnosis, or when you
get into the
discussion of false positives
and false negatives,
and then you have therapeutic
devices that
can actually harm people.
MILES O'BRIEN: Bakul Patel is
associate center
director for digital health at
FDA.
BAKUL PATEL: There are standards
of what an
EKG machine -- how it should
capture, what
kind of wave forms, how it
should be managing
the signals that comes out of
your body and
displaying it. Those are all
standards written
-- written for that.
If you're going to be in the
market as an
EKG machine, doctors better rely
on them,
and we ask for testing to
happen, so they
can actually make the same sort
of diagnosis
and treatment decisions.
MILES O'BRIEN: The pull of
diagnostic tools
out of the doctor's toolbox and
into our pockets,
our ears and onto our wrists is
a revolution
seed in part by this man, Larry
Smarr.
A scientist and professor at the
University
of California, San Diego, he
used the video
wall at the school's Qualcomm
Institute to
illustrate the power of what's
called the
quantified self.
LARRY SMARR, University of
California, San
Diego: Big data, as it's called.
And this
is about me. Every one of the
points on these
graphs are a different blood
test or a stool
test in which I got a data point
over a decade.
MILES O'BRIEN: Dr. Smarr began
his fantastic
data voyage back in 2000 with a
desire to
lose some weight. And so his
self-prescribed
testing began. He never looked
back, and,
before long, he spotted trouble.
His self-diagnosis,
Crohn's disease.
So, he brought the data to his
doctor, who
said:
LARRY SMARR: If you don't have
symptoms, why
are you here? I said, because I
got data.
And he said, well, that's not
helpful. And
so I realized, as a lifetime
scientist, that
the practice of medicine and the
practice
of science, while they overlap
sometimes,
are generally different.
MILES O'BRIEN: So, he fired that
doctor and
found another. Indeed, so many
people generating
so much diagnostic data may
sound like a prescription
for a lot of bad diagnoses,
unneeded anxiety
or even an epidemic of
hypochondria.
LINDSEY TURRENTINE: There is
such a thing
as too much data if you can't
deal with the
data.
If you don't have software that
will help
you interpret the data in a
smart and reliable
way, or if you get overwhelmed
and frustrated
and you don't know how to pick
it out of the
big needle in a haystack sort of
data pile
that's building up on your
phone, then it's
too much data. But it's sort of
up to you
and how much you can handle.
MILES O'BRIEN: But a giant cloud
of real-time
data, really big data,
aggregated, analyzed
and compared with artificial
intelligence,
could lead to stunning
breakthroughs in preventive
medicine.
WOODY SCAL: Where you can figure
out, how
has this kind of signal been
correlated with
other things that have happened
among a
broader set of people. Someday,
could you
get an early alert about an
impending heart
event? Yes, I believe you can. I
believe you
will.
MILES O'BRIEN: There may be
rough spots and
silliness along the way, but
there is no stopping
the free market experiment to
give us all
more knowledge and more power
managing our
own well-being.
Miles O'Brien, the "PBS
NewsHour," Las Vegas.
JUDY WOODRUFF: It was a rare
Q&A: the president
of the United States face to
face with concerned
citizens during a CNN town hall
Thursday night,
the topic, gun safety and gun
rights.
President Obama made the case
for the executive
actions he announced earlier
this week, saying
his proposals balance the need
to prevent
gun deaths with the
Constitution's right to
bear arms.
BARACK OBAMA, President of the
United States:
I respect the Second Amendment,
I respect
the right to bear arms. I
respect people who
want a gun for self-protection,
for hunting,
for sportsmanship.
But all of us can agree that it
makes sense
to do everything we can to keep
guns out of
the hands of people who would
try to do others
harm or to do themselves harm.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Earlier in the
day, House Speaker
Paul Ryan wrote off the
president as someone
who put too much emphasis on
limiting access
to guns, at the expense of
Second Amendment
rights.
REP. PAUL RYAN (R-WI), Speaker
of the House:
I don't think the president -- I
think he's
been pretty hostile to the
Second Amendment
all along.
I don't think the president has
a lot of respect
for the Second Amendment. And
guess what is
one of the most important things
that we can
do as citizens, collectively, to
protect ourselves
from some possible terrorist
attack? Exercising
our Second Amendment rights.
JUDY WOODRUFF: And that brings
us to the analysis
of Brooks and Corn. That's New
York Times
columnist David Brooks, and
David Corn, Washington
bureau chief for "Mother Jones"
and an analyst
for MSNBC. Mark Shields is away
this week.
We welcome you both.
DAVID CORN: Thank you.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Gentlemen.
So, David Brooks, who is right?
Does the president
respect the Second Amendment or
doesn't he?
DAVID BROOKS: I have got to side
with Obama
on this one.
He -- the Second Amendment
guarantees guns,
some possession. It doesn't
guarantee all
guns. It doesn't guarantee a
freedom from
background checks. It doesn't
mean you can't
regulate them in some way.
And so I think he's been
reasonably respectful
toward the Second Amendment. I
personally
support most of what he
proposed. Do I think
it will do a lot of good?
Probably not. The
history of gun control
legislation from the
Brady Bill, backwards and
forwards, has been
that it can reduce suicides, but
it doesn't
seem to have a huge effect on
homicide rates.
So the effect of what the
president proposes
is, I think, minimal, but
probably a positive
small step in the right
direction. And it
boggles the mind to think it
would be in violation
of the Constitution.
JUDY WOODRUFF: David Corn, what
about this?
Is Ryan right or is the
president?
DAVID CORN: Paul Ryan was doing
sort of a
mild version of what the
Republican conservative
line has been, which is really
to be sort
of, I think, demagogic when
talking about
President Obama, that he wants
to take guns
away.
Just earlier in the week, Marco
Rubio put
out a campaign ad saying that
the president
wants to take your guns. And
that's been the
line from the NRA Over and over
again. And
it's really not true. He can't.
And there's
nothing that he's proposed that
would take
guns away from people who
actually possess
them already.
And so I think the very
interesting thing
about the town hall meeting was
that the president
took that on directly. And he
said, there
are conspiracy theories out
there about me,
and I want to confront them. And
he wondered
why the NRA wasn't there last
night, because
they had been invited to come.
I think the reason was because
he was ready
to really call them out on that
point, and
they don't want to have that
honest disagreement
with the president.
JUDY WOODRUFF: David Brooks, is
there any
movement on this issue? Are we
just frozen,
with each side standing its
ground?
DAVID BROOKS: Mm-hmm, frozen.
(LAUGHTER)
DAVID BROOKS: You know, it's
become a cultural
issue.
And, actually, I thought Obama
is trying to
begin to defuse that, but it is
just a fact
that a lot of people, especially
in rural
parts of the country, think that
gun control
is a symbol for, we don't like
your lifestyle.
And they feel outsiders are
dictating to them
their lifestyle.
And so even non-gun owners in
rural parts
of Virginia or wherever perceive
it as hostile
elitism. And I think that's how
it's frozen.
That's why it's frozen.
DAVID CORN: It's interesting,
because that
wasn't always the case.
Back in 1994, Reagan urged
banning the making
of AK-47s and assault weapons.
Chris Christie
says that he got into politics
in the early
'90s because he wanted to do
something about
guns. Even Marco Rubio, when he
ran in 2000,
said he was for reasonable
restrictions.
So, there used to be this
ability for Democrats
and some Republicans to talk
about this stuff.
But the Republican Party, it has
just moved
so far to the right, I think
goaded by the
NRA, that there really is no
room to talk
about this without it becoming
sort of caricatures.
JUDY WOODRUFF: And there is also
conversation
in the Democratic Party. The
president also,
David Brooks, wrote an op-ed
piece for The
New York -- in your newspaper
today, in which,
among other things, he made some
of the same
arguments that he did last night
in that town
hall, but he also said: I won't
support a
candidate, even one in my own
party, who isn't
willing to go along with gun
reform, with
significant -- some people
looked at that
as a shot at Bernie Sanders.
DAVID BROOKS: Yes. Well, Sanders
has got a
lot of wiggle room. And the
president left
himself some wiggle room.
If Sanders is the nominee, I
guarantee you
Barack Obama will be there for
him.
DAVID CORN: Yes.
DAVID BROOKS: And then the other
-- if there
are any other Democrats, they
probably come
from red states and they
wouldn't want Barack
Obama campaigning for them
anyway.
So, to me, that was a sentence
without much
meaning.
JUDY WOODRUFF: But -- and in
reaction to that,
evidently, or at least because
of it, David
Corn, you had Hillary Clinton's
campaign today
pointing out that what -- some
of the past
votes of Bernie Sanders.
What is that all about?
(CROSSTALK)
DAVID CORN: Well, you know, the
rap on Hillary
Clinton within the Democratic
Party has always
been that she's not progressive
enough.
And Bernie Sanders, obviously,
on issues of
the economy, and financial
reform, and in
foreign policy, is to her left,
and probably
more in line with a lot of
people, the Democratic
primary voters.
So, guns is one place where
there is a little
distance. There is not a great
difference,
but there is some distance. You
look at some
past votes where she is more
progressive than
Bernie Sanders. And so any
chance the Hillary
Clinton campaign has to make
something out
of that, they did.
So, they leaped upon the Obama
op-ed today
to point out, well, maybe he
won't campaign
for her, just -- at least to
suggest that,
which I don't think is a
possibility.
JUDY WOODRUFF: But is that
something that
makes a difference in Iowa or
New Hampshire,
which are coming up in a few
weeks?
DAVID BROOKS: No.
DAVID CORN: I don't think...
DAVID BROOKS: There's only one
small group
of people who vote on the gun
issue. And that's
the NRA. Nobody else votes on
the gun issue
in this country, which is why
it's hard to
pass gun control legislation.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Well, I want to
ask you about
-- there is more to talk about,
about the
Democrats.
But on the Republican side,
you're seeing
-- yes, you saw this
Clinton-Sanders back
and forth, but, on the
Republican side, among
-- David Brooks, among the
so-called establishment
Republicans, they're taking more
potshots
at one another.
You're hearing a lot of back and
forth between
Rubio and Cruz, between Rubio
and Christie.
So, what's going on over there,
or is anybody
making any headway among that
group?
DAVID BROOKS: Yes, Ted Cruz is
making headway.
There's -- you begin to see
little signs of
liftoff. Trump has sort of
ceiling-ed out.
Carson is collapsing. And Cruz
is somehow
beginning to get some momentum
from Iowa and
elsewhere. And so people are
either mimicking
him, which Rubio is doing a
little by adopting
some of the dark and satanic
tones that Cruz
has, and so...
JUDY WOODRUFF: What did you --
let me just
ask, what did you just say?
(LAUGHTER)
DAVID BROOKS: Well, if you go to
a Cruz -- if
you watch a Cruz speech, it's
like, we have
got this enemy, we have got that
enemy, we're
going to stomp on this person,
we're going
to crush that person, we're
going to destroy
that person.
It is an ugly world in Ted
Cruz's world. And
it's combative. And it's angry,
and it's apocalyptic.
DAVID CORN: Well, actually, if
you go to a
speech from his dad, who is a
pastor, evangelical,
Rafael Cruz, it actually is
satanic.
(LAUGHTER)
DAVID CORN: He -- I watched a
speech in which
he said Satan was behind the
Supreme Court
decision to legalize gay
marriage.
So, it's not...
DAVID BROOKS: OK. Well, I
withdraw the satanic
from Ted Cruz.
DAVID CORN: You're thinking that
it's political,
but, sometimes, it's literal.
DAVID BROOKS: Mephistophelian,
maybe.
(LAUGHTER)
DAVID BROOKS: But it's dark and
combative,
and, frankly, harsh. It's a
harsh -- he gets
some jokes in the beginning, but
then it's
just, we have enemies. We're in
an apocalyptic
situation. We're on the edge of
the abyss.
You need a tough guy to beat
that back.
And that's his personality.
That's not Marco
Rubio's personality. He's a
sunny -- he's
been running the youthful
optimism campaign,
but he's beginning, to prevent
Cruz from getting
liftoff, to mimic sort of that,
get a piece
of that.
I personally think it's a
mistake, because
inauthentic -- inauthenticity
almost never
works. And so, if Cruz starts to
go like -- I
mean, if Rubio starts to go like
Cruz, he
just doesn't look like himself,
and that bothers
people.
DAVID CORN: I think the
interesting dynamic
is, a few months ago, the
conventional wisdom,
which has been wrong at every
turn of this
campaign, was that Trump would
kind of fade
by the beginning of the voting,
and there
would be a couple different
spots for people
to land in.
And, right now, Trump hasn't
faded. Cruz has
sort of moved up, but he is not
an establishment
candidate. So that has left the
so-called
establishment candidates,
whether it's Rubio,
Kasich, Christie, whoever you
put in that
group, fighting for third place.
And I think the desperation
level has just
really amped up. And I see them
all as, like,
guys in a pool treading water
and trying to
splash water in the face of the
others, because
they're so desperate not to be
cut out...
(LAUGHTER)
DAVID CORN: ... because Cruz and
Trump seem
to have a lock, at least in
Iowa, on the first
two positions.
JUDY WOODRUFF: But, in New
Hampshire, it seems
to me there's more room to play.
DAVID CORN: Yes.
JUDY WOODRUFF: To keep the water
analogy,
rather than the satanic analogy
there.
(LAUGHTER)
DAVID CORN: I think so, too.
But they kind of all seemed to
make a decision
in December that they had to do
-- they had
to have some sort of a showing
in Iowa, because
there just isn't enough room for
The train
out of Manchester at the end of
that...
(CROSSTALK)
JUDY WOODRUFF: But is any one of
them -- you
mentioned Christie, Kasich,
Rubio.
DAVID CORN: Oh, Jeb Bush.
(CROSSTALK)
JUDY WOODRUFF: You didn't --
neither one of
you has mentioned Jeb Bush.
DAVID CORN: Oh, yes. There is
this guy named
Jeb Bush, yes.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Is any one of
them making headway,
the kind of headway that could
last for a
few weeks?
DAVID CORN: Well, no one seems
to be having
a breakout moment.
Christie has been moving up a
little bit,
only in New Hampshire. Rubio has
had a little
bit of burst and then kind of
leveled out.
So, maybe we will be surprised
the first week
in February in New Hampshire,
but, so far,
I don't see anybody coming out
of the pack
here.
DAVID BROOKS: Right.
Yes, I still think it will be a
Cruz-Rubio
thing by the end of the first
two. But then
you go down South, and Cruz has
some natural
turf to run there. And so he
just has a straighter
line to the nomination.
I personally think his
personality is not
ideal for a candidate in
likability.
JUDY WOODRUFF: You mean Cruz.
DAVID BROOKS: But -- I'm trying
to compensate
for my past crudeness.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Cruz, yes, yes.
DAVID BROOKS: And so -- but he
-- if you look
now, I still think he's the guy
with the straightest
line to the nomination.
JUDY WOODRUFF: But you don't --
you -- specifically,
you have mentioned Rubio a few
times. You
don't see Christie? You don't
see Kasich,
Bush?
DAVID BROOKS: Well, Christie is
like -- he's
like what McCain did in '08. He
just sits
there, and has town hall after
town hall in
New Hampshire.
And, like McCain, he's a genius
at formulation.
He's great at riffling. And so
it's working
for him. So, he's coming up. And
you begin
to see people taking shots at
Christie. But
he's not acceptable to all parts
of the party.
Cruz -- Rubio is acceptable to
all parts of
the party, which makes him the
most viable
alternative.
DAVID CORN: Well, not on
immigration, though.
That is still a very big
liability for Rubio.
Eventually, he has to get votes
from the Republican
base. The Republican base hates
anything to
do with immigration reform. And
he has tried
to run away from that. But if he
gets closer,
other people will remind the
base of where
he used to be.
DAVID BROOKS: Yes, I differ on
that.
The people who stand up at these
meetings,
they tend to not have any
tolerance for what
Rubio did a couple years ago.
But if you poll
Republican primary voters, there
are some
polls where a majority favor
some sort of
path to citizenship. So, among
the actual
voters, the silent majority,
there is a lot
more flexibility than you would
think if you
just listen to the questions at
the town halls.
JUDY WOODRUFF: You get the sense
Republican
primary voters may be
struggling, those who
haven't decided yet may be
struggling still
about what to do.
The health care reform law, ACA,
the Republicans
in the House finally got enough
votes, David
this, week. The Senate had
already passed
repeal. Now the House has. They
got it to
the president's desk. Now, he's
vetoed it.
But Paul Ryan, we hear him
saying today, we're
going to -- this isn't the last
you heard
about this.
Is the ACA in real jeopardy
here?
DAVID BROOKS: No. No.
Even if a Republican wins, it's
entrenched.
The systemic disruption that
would caused
by simply getting rid of it
would be catastrophic
for a lot of companies and a lot
of actual
people who are actually doing
stuff on the
ground.
If a Republican got in, it would
change a
lot. But, frankly, if a Democrat
gets in,
it is going to change a lot.
Some of the really
startling premium hikes that
we're seeing
from some of the insurance
companies are going
to cause huge problems down the
road.
So, even if a Democrat gets in,
there's going
to have to be some changes. But
it's very
hard to see you just -- just
uprooting it?
It's too deeply entrenched.
JUDY WOODRUFF: What do you see?
DAVID CORN: It wasn't even
repealed. They
repealed the part of the law
that requires
people to have insurance, but
they kept in
the stuff that's popular, which
is, if you
have preexisting conditions, you
can get coverage.
Anyone can get coverage.
But the problem is, if you take
away the requirement,
and you just leave the ability
of people with
preexisting conditions to get
coverage, then
premiums truly skyrocket.
So, what they were doing, they
were voting
for a way to create a death
spiral without
replacing it with anything. So
they don't
want this bill to pass. And, if
you look at
-- in Kentucky, a good case
study, where a
Tea Party candidate won saying
he would repeal
Obamacare, Bevin, he became
governor.
And in between New Year's Day
and Christmas,
he very quietly said he wasn't
going to get
rid of the Medicaid expansion
that he promised
to, because it's working in
Kentucky.
JUDY WOODRUFF: But you're saying
that's a
model for what is -- a
forerunner of what's
happening in Washington?
DAVID CORN: Yes, I don't --
listen, they can't
get rid of it without tremendous
dislocation
to real people. They will pay a
real political
cost.
And they haven't suggested an
alternative.
So I think it was just all
showmanship. And
it was kind of funny that Paul
Ryan was saying,
look what we have accomplished
today.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Well, we will
leave it there
with what we accomplished here.
David Corn, David Brooks, we
thank you both.
DAVID CORN: Thank you.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Thanks.
On the "NewsHour" online: Film
and TV buffs
probably have their Golden Globe
picks ready
ahead of Sunday's awards
ceremony, but they
still don't know who you're
rooting for. You
can take your quiz to get
acquainted with
critics' takes on some of the
best television
and movies from the past year.
That's on our
home page. That's at
PBS.org/NewsHour.
And a reminder about some
upcoming programs
from our PBS colleagues.
Gwen Ifill's preparing for
"Washington Week,"
which airs later tonight.
Here's a preview:
GWEN IFILL: Tears were shed,
political gauntlets
were thrown, and bombs exploded,
and that's
just in the first week of 2016.
We take you
from Washington to North Korea
to Cedar Rapids,
Iowa, all tonight on "Washington
Week" -- Judy.
JUDY WOODRUFF: On "PBS NewsHour
Weekend" Saturday:
the increasing numbers of women
who are pregnant
and addicted to painkillers, a
look at treatments
for mothers and their babies who
are at risk.
WOMAN: When you're an addict,
all you can
think about is getting that
drug, getting
that medicine, getting that
relief.
NARRATOR: What began with a
legitimate prescription
for pain following a car
accident quickly
slipped into abuse.
WOMAN: I knew I had crossed the
line when
I was -- started running out of
them a couple
days before my prescription was
supposed to
be gone. And then I found ways
to get them
without a prescription.
QUESTION: Did you go doctor
shopping at all?
WOMAN: If I didn't have a doctor
and I had
a pain flare-up, I would go to
an E.R. I accrued
tens of thousands of dollars in
bills.
NARRATOR: Now, at 32, she's
pregnant and attends
a clinic for pregnant opioid
users.
Dr. Jessica Young started the
clinic four
years ago at Vanderbilt
University Medical
Center. Young estimates that
two-thirds of
her patients are like April,
whose addiction
started with a prescription for
pain.
JUDY WOODRUFF: That's tomorrow
night on "PBS
NewsHour Weekend."
And we will be back right here
on Monday,
ahead of the college football
championship,
when we look at what concussions
do to players.
That's the "NewsHour" for
tonight. I'm Judy
Woodruff.
Have a great weekend. Thank you,
and good
night.
Have a great weekend. Thank you,
and good
night.